All right so in this video we're going to see how we can add our own sprites to our flappy bird app
and we'll do a little bit of basic animation as well to make our bird flap up and down.
All right.
So to be able to add our sprites we're going to need some images for them so you can download these
from Android deck of course dot com slash Flappy Bird assets datsik.
So I just get flappy bird as it starts it will be a folder or is it file that downloads and then just
open up that zip file and you'll have a little folder with.
Very simple.
We've got a background.
We've got Bert in two states so you might just be able to see their wings up and then wings down
and then we've got two cubes.
So this is a chip coming up from the bottom and coming up or coming down from the top.
That's all we need.
Very simple.
And of course we're going to need to add those two hour gap.
The way I would do it is to get over the Android studio and open the android and then assets folder.
So you can see that's where we've got bad logic.
Jay peg the default there.
And then I'm just going to reveal that in the Finder.
Again if you own windows
you can open it in Windows Explorer instead and then just select those images and drag them into the
assets folder like that.
Now we can go back over and you can see that all that wonderful and I'm actually going to get rid of
bad logic too because we don't need that anymore.
All right.
Just before we add our first sprite there's one change I want to make and that is we noticed last time
that the app is in landscape mode by default.
Now that's great for most games but flappy bird is actually one of the few games that you play in portrait
mode or that's how we're going to make it anyway.
So if you go into an android manifests and then Android manifest you can see we've got all the usual
stuff that we're used to.
And then a bit of other stuff as well.
The key thing that we want to change here is the screen orientation.
So obviously we want to change it from landscape to portrait OK.
So now we are in a position to at
code.
So pretty much everything we do is going to be in this single flappy bird class here.
And I'm just going to get rid of everything that's here and here as well.
In fact maybe we'll leave that one line.
And so we're more or less starting from scratch.
So as I mentioned in the previous video we've got two main methods and the create method which happens
obviously when the app is run and the render method that happens continuously as the app is processed.
So our main aim here is to add a couple of sprites.
We're going to start with the background and then we're going to bring in our flappy bird and we add
our sprites as a batch.
So sprite batch is exactly what you might think.
A sprite is essentially an image or a character or background something like that and we create a sprite
batch to manage the displaying an animation of those sprites.
So the first thing that we're going to do to add our background is to begin our batch
so this just tells the rendah method that we're going to start displaying sprites now.
And we're only going to display the one but we're going to display the background so instead of having
a texture called image that's have a texture called background and the texture.
It really is just an image.
It's exactly the same thing but in game creation they're known as textures rather than images.
And then we're going to define which image this background is going to be.
So we want a new texture created from.
And of course we're going to use B.G. to PMG background top hangi G.
So now this background refers to this texture and then to display it we take Colebatch and then we draw.
And you can see we've got a bunch of options there of ways that we can draw things.
And the main ones that we're going to be using is like this third one down so we get the texture first
then the x coordinate and the y coordinates then the width and that one.
If you could say it would say height.
So very simple we get the x coordinate y coordinate with and then the height so start with the texture
background then the x coordinate.
I want this background to be full screen.
So I wanted to begin at the bottom left.
So 0 0 0 and then I want the width to be the same as the width of the screen and I can get that from
the GDX library using GDX dot graphics to get with I would go.
You can maybe anticipate what's going to come next.
We want the height of this thing to be the same as the height of the screen which is GDX dot graphics
to get height simple as that.
And then that's all we're having this time.
So then we use Bachche and and and simple as that.
So we've now created our Renda method and we've told it to repeatedly display the background on our
phone screen and we're stretching it so that it's going to be whole screen because the bottom left of
our image is going to be the bottom left of the screen.
The width is going to be the width of the screen and the height is going to be the height of the screen.
So let's just take a look.
There we go.
There's a lovely background stretched to full screen.
Wonderful.
So that's a good start.
Now let's bring our bird in.
So as you can imagine we create a new texture.
It's called Bird.
And then we'll set bird to be equal to a new texture.
And it's bad.
Angie
OK.
Now here's a challenge for you.
And it's not easy but can you get the bird to be drawn in exactly the middle of the screen.
So we want the bird to appear in exactly the middle of the screen the center of the screen.
Go for it.
I wonder if you manage that.
It's harder than you might think.
So probably a lot of you started with something like batched don't draw.
And then bird which is a good start.
And then you're thinking Why what do we want the x coordinate to be.
Well presumably if we want the bird to be in the center of the screen we want the x coordinate to be
the center of the screen.
Now we know what the screen with is.
That's this.
So if we divide that by two that will give us the center of the screen.
So let's try that out.
So GDX took graphics took it with divided party and then similarly with the height we want the height
divided by two.
And then you may have noticed that if we don't need to specify the width and height then of the actual
asset or texture We don't need to.
So why not just let the size be whatever the size of the sprite is.
Because I didn't specify that I wanted it a certain size so that be a very reasonable solution.
So if you attempt to that you would have seen this and then you might have thought wait a minute that
doesn't look quite central and that's because it's not quite central and that's because what what you
gave when you give this coordinate is you give the coordinates of the bottom left of the sprite.
So that's this bit here because it's a square that's around there and that point there is exactly the
center of the screen.
But of course what we actually want is the center of the sprite to be in the center of the screen.
So what we're going to need to do is move the sprite half its width to the left and then Hafetz with
down and then the center of the sprite will be in the center of the screen which is what we want.
So you may have worked out how to do that.
We need to get the weight of the sprite or the width of the bird which we can do using bird don't get
with exactly the same as GDX don't Grafix don't get with but obviously on birds this time and we want
to subtract half the width of the bird so that the center of the bird will be in the center of the screen
and exactly the same for the height.
But we want to subtract half the height of the bird this time not half of the width.
So well done if you figured that out.
This is a little taste.
There's going to be a lot of math in here I'm afraid.
Game development is quite math heavy.
And you are going to need to do quite a lot of thinking and working out formulas to get everything to
appear in the right place.
And there we go that bird now looks much more central than it did before.
Wonderful.
So we got our bird we've got our background our only other aim for this video is to get the bird flapping.
So remember this looks static.
But this rendah method is actually being run again and again.
So all we need to do is to instead of drawing bird each time we need to draw bird once and then we need
to draw bird to the next time.
And then bird once and then bird to bird bird but two etc. we need to go back and forth between bird
and two.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create an array of textures and I'm going to call it birds and
then we're going to have birds this time instead of being a new texture it's going to be a new array
of textures which recreate using texture and then square brackets.
And we need to specify the number of items in our array and there's going to be two.
It's going to be Bert and Betty and we just specify each of them.
So birds 0 is going to be a new texture based on top.
So same as what we had before.
And then that's one
is going to be a new texture based on bird to hangi.
So now instead of displaying just bird every time we're going to be displaying birds zero and then birds
one and then birds zero et cetera.
Now of course to manage that we're going to have to keep track of which one we want to display at any
given time.
So I'm just going to split these up a little bit so that there all the bird information is kept together.
And the way I'm going to deal with that is to have an integer which I'm going to call Fluff's state
and that's initially going to be zero.
So flat state just flips between 0 and 1 and that will keep track of which one we want to display at
each time.
So now we're just going to do a quick check to see if flap state is equal to zero and we want to set
flap state equal to one else slept state equals zero or so flaps 8.
We'll just also like to go back and forth between 1 and 0.
And then instead of birds we're going to use bird instead of bird.
We're going to use bird and then the one that we want is flap state and is going to replace that.
Each time it pops up
we go.
So now we should find that instead of just having a static bird we get a bird which oscillates between
0 and birds 1 which are out to textures with the wings up and the wings down.
So we should get this animated bird.
Now one issue of course is that when actually controlling the flaps speed here and is flapping pretty
fast I'm actually going to leave it like that.
I'm quite happy with a fast track.
It makes it look a little bit desperate.
But if you want to use that and slow that down you might want to look into animations with GDX involve
creating something called a texture outlets and texture regions.
A lot of help out there on the web for that.
And if you want to get seriously into game development I'd recommend going in that direction but this
is a perfectly good rough and ready way of getting an animation going.
All right.
So we've got our background and we've got our flapping bird in the next video.
We'll see how to make the bird respond to a tap and float up and down in the way that we saw in the
previous video.
See them.